David is a 16-year-old male. He was hospitalized as a result of threatening to kill his brother with a bat during an argument over an ordinary matter and physically hurting his parents when they tried to intervene. He was hospitalized in a psychiatric unit and after 2 weeks was discharged and arrived to our clinic for follow-up evaluation.His anamnesis revealed no major developmental irregularities.
David’s parents were not aware of anything unusual about him until his kindergarten, until his then teacher told them that he played mainly by himself. He repeated the first grade. From the age of 7 years until he was about 10 years old, David seemed to
adjust fairly well socially and academically.
Inappropriate affect and behaviors of sexual and aggressive nature are increasingly reported since the age of 10. For example,He had pulled his pants down twice in class, made sexual gestures towards his younger sister, and tried to throw a jar filled with feces out his apartment window. He complains of impaired concentration and memory but performs standard tasks adequately.
He seems unconnected to other people, lacks close friends, and frequently gazes out the window at class. He steadfastly maintains that there is nothing wrong with him and that he does not need treatment.
David’s hygiene is marginal, and he wears the same T-shirt, pants; and baseball cap pulled low over his eyes every day. He shows poor eye contact, flat affect, minimal gesturing, concrete thinking, poverty of speech, and psychomotor retardation. Symptoms such as sleep disturbance, appetite disturbance, helplessness, hopelessness, or suicidal feelings are not reported. Although he denies auditory or visual hallucinations, his family reports that David sometimes sits alone and laughs to himself. He denies thought broadcasting, thought insertion, or feelings of special powers.
However, he tends to perceive others to be talking negatively about him, even when the evidence does not support this interpretation.
