Michael, 21 years old, was referred from his own GP to a mental health clinic. For the past 2 years, the GP has treated Michael with
selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors SSRIs drugs without great success. Michael lives alone in the basement of a villa that belongs
to some friends of his parents. His parents pay the rent and support Michael financially, but occasionally he gets help from the
welfare office. There is no history of drug or alcohol abuse. His early childhood was unremarkable. However, during his first year
in school he suffered a “school phobia” and his mother had to be present outside the classroom. After completing primary school,
he went to a high school but dropped out after one and a half year. He says that he found his peer’s presence “challenging.” After
dropping out from school, he had a series of small unqualified jobs but during the last 3 years, he has been unemployed.
He describes his depression as being chronic for the last several years and consisting of lack of energy and an inverted day-night
rhythm. He sleeps until early afternoon and is awake during the night where he is surfing on the internet or listening to music.
Asked about his thoughts, he replies that he often thinks about metaphysical issues and that he finds human existence completely
meaningless. He has fleetingly thought about suicide but only in “theoretical terms.” He describes his chronic anxiety as a feeling of
uneasiness in the company of other people, and for that reason, he buys his groceries at the tank station at night in order to avoid other
customers. His panic attacks consist of feeling a kind of “fog in the head” with many thoughts rushing in all directions. The attacks typically culminate with a feeling that he “completely disappears,” as if
he was ceasing to exist. The attacks are never followed by amnesia or neurological symptoms. Finally, he says that he had consulted
an eye specialist because he often has an experience of seeing the objects in his environment two-dimensionally and only a split
second later, he sees those objects as real and three-dimensional. No physiological problems were found in this physical examination.
